<p><i><h1>Introduction:</i></h1>
Speech pathologists do not currently have access to any tools to quickly determine the lexical properties of a specific base of books, which they need to help them with their work treating speech disorders and language disorders. Speech disorders occur when someone has difficulty producing speech sounds effectively or fluently. Language disorders are issues a person has with understanding others or sharing thoughts, ideas, and feelings. Language disorders can be either spoken or written and may involve the form (phonology, morphology, and syntax), content (semantics), and/or use (pragmatics) of language. Treatment of both types of disorders can be advanced by creating a program that helps with getting the specific lexical properties from a set of digitized books, and that type of program is what we aim to produce. </p>
   <p> Once created, the application will be used by speech pathologists to facilitate therapy. Speech pathologists who want to work with specific age groups will be able to use this program to easily review many properties of the language the age group could have acquired from reading by studying their lexical base (books for their age group). This analysis of words will be very helpful 
for treating both speech disorders and language disorders, with information such as Phonotactic Probability, which is related to memory of words, being made quickly viewable. An easily accessible program of this kind does not currently exist, and creating it will allow speech pathologists to much more effectively help their patients. As it will be potentially used with many age groups, the ability to easily select subsets of the library is very important as the program will only be helpful when able to select exactly what lexical base is intended at the time. The end user of the application should with only basic knowledge of how to operate a computer be able to use it and create a custom workspace to easily find what they need. </p>
    <p>For this project our team has been provided an already existing program that when ran creates a dictionary listing words that appear in a collection of digitized books, their frequency, and other such parameters.  This program was developed a previous year by another group of students as part of their senior project. This program edits and creates the dictionary, but it does not efficiently query books which is a key requirement. </p>
    <p>The framework shows how the existing program takes as input digital books in plain text, computes their word frequencies, and outputs a corpus in XML format. The lexical properties of the words in this corpus are then analyzed, and the dictionary is produced in XML format. This xml format dictionary is then converted into the more easily usable CSV format, and output to the user. The framework shows that our job in this project is to give the users an easy way to upload their books in a plain text file into the preexisting program and then after the program is done converting the dictionary, we need to be able to display and save the dictionary in a CSV format.</p>
   

    
    
